feat: Remove Preview/Tokens & Upgrade CKR Labs Type Hierarchy (#1078)
Workday/canvas-kit: modules/docs/mdx/5.0-MIGRATION-GUIDE.mdx

We've promoted several components from Labs to Preview in v5. See
[Component Promotions](#component-promotions) for more details.

### Type Deprecations and Hierarchy Updates

Canvas Kit v4 supported two type hierarchies, `beta` and `legacy` in
`@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core` and `@workday/canvas-kit-react-core` respectively. However, v5
replaces those with a new, responsive type hierarchy in `@workday/canvas-kit-react-core`. We are
also deprecating and updating our type variants. The v5 codemod handles almost all of these changes
for you. That said, you'll want to review the transformation and your UI to ensure everything was
updated as you expect.

#### Automatic Updates

- 🤖 Type Hierarchy Updates

All type hierarchy updates are handled by the codemod. The tables below will help you understand the

> changes and provide a reference as you review your UI. Most teams are using the `beta` type tokens

Reviewer: These long blocks of content nested within list items will be set apart a bit nicer if you indent them one level. See [the Automatic Updates section under Core](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/blame/prerelease/v5/modules/docs/mdx/5.0-MIGRATION-GUIDE.mdx#L162) for example. Note how the content in each line of the list item is flush with the 🤖.

Author: Ah, I missed that nuance when I was looking at your formatting. Thanks!

in `@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core`, but some are using the `legacy` type in

> `@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@workday/canvas-kit-react-core`.
```

| `fontSize`   | `type.properties.fontSizes`   | please consult the type hierarchies above to map values         |
| `fontWeight` | `type.properties.fontWeights` | `regular` (400), `medium` (500), and `bold` (700) are available |

- 🤖 Variant Updates

All `variant` updates _except `link`_ are handled by the codemod. Please see the
[variants](#variants) section below for more information.

| Variant                | Transformation                                                                 | Notes                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| `type.variant.error`   | `type.variants.error`                                                          | name change only                        |
| `type.variant.hint`    | `type.variants.hint`                                                           | name change only                        |
| `type.variant.inverse` | `type.variants.inverse`                                                        | name change only                        |

> | `type.variant.button`  | `{fontWieight: type.properties.fontWeights.bold}`                              | variant deprecated, use type properties |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `type.variant.button`  | `{fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.bold}`                              | variant deprecated, use type properties |
```

| `type.variant.caps`    | `{textTransform: 'uppercase', fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.medium}` | variant deprecated, use type properties |
| `type.variant.label`   | `{fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.medium}`                             | variant deprecated, use type properties |
| `type.variant.mono`    | `{fontWeight: type.properties.fonts.monospace}`                                | variant deprecated, use type properties |

#### Manual Updates

> There are only two type deprecations not covered by the codemod:
> 
> - Type Wrapper components (`H1`-`H5`) have been removed
> - `link` variant has been removed.

Reviewer: Nit.

```suggestion
There are only two type deprecations not covered by the codemod:

- Type Wrapper components (`H1`-`H5`) have been removed
- `link` variant has been removed
```

> ##### Type Wrapper Components Migration
> 
> To migrate, please refer to the hierachy tables about and use the type hierarchy tokens directly. Detailed usage information is available in the [levels section](#levels).

Reviewer: Is "hierarchy tables" meant to refer to the tables in the [first list item under Automatic Updates](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/blame/96fda328962cc43b4a697862fc62ba113cc41207/modules/docs/mdx/5.0-MIGRATION-GUIDE.mdx#L106) above? If so you could make the change below to link directly to the tables:

```suggestion
##### Type Wrapper Components Migration

To migrate, please refer to the [old hierarchy tables](#old-hierarchy-tables) and use the type
hierarchy tokens directly. Detailed usage information is available in the [levels section](#levels).
```

You would also need to add an empty anchor tag to the destination line. Something like this:
```
- 🤖 Type Hierarchy Updates<a name="old-hierarchy-tables"></a>
```
It's a bit ugly, unfortunately. Alternatively, you could just link to the nearby `Automatic Updates` heading which will get you close enough (though this link may break if you move content around).

##### Link Variant Migration

To migrate, please use the `Hyperlink` component instead. Detailed usage information is available in the [variants section](#variants).

#### Type Updates In-Depth Overview

The new type tokens introduce a few major changes:

- Introducing rem values

> - Creating new `type` object structure

Reviewer: Nit.

```suggestion
- Creating a new `type` object structure
```

- Adding new type properties (`fonts`, `fontSizes`, and `fontWeights`)
- Updating and replacing variants

#### Introducing Rem Values

The new type hierarchy uses `rem` values instead of `px`. This update follows the guidance
[from the WCAG spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#resize-text) and provides better support for
users who rely on zooming. If you'd like to learn more about `rem` and relative units, you can
review this
[documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Values_and_units#ems_and_rems).

> **Note:** We are using `16px` as our base font-size for these values. This is a browser standard
> and also fairly common across Workday. However, _if your body text is set to a value other than
> `16px`_, you will need to adjust that value for text to render properly.

#### New Type Object Structure

> The `beta` and `legacy` type object structures were fairly flat, provided many levels in the type
> hierarchy, and quite a few variants. While none of these are bad attributes, we found in our
> research that they created a large amount of confusion. Both designers and engineers were unclear on

Reviewer: Wordsmithing.

```suggestion
The `beta` and `legacy` type object structures were fairly flat, provided many levels in the type
hierarchy, and included quite a few variants. While none of these were bad attributes, our research suggested they created a large amount of confusion. Both designers and engineers were unclear on
```

when to use many of the tokens provided. We restructured the object to help users make more sense of
it. The tokens are divided into three main categories:

- `levels` (the type hierarchy)
- `properties` (`fonts`, `fontSizes`, and `fontWeights`)
- `variants` (modifiers for type styles)

##### Levels

Type `levels` contain our new type hierarchy. When applying type styles, we recommend using these
tokens first. Each size applies `fontFamily`, `fontSize`, `fontWeight`, `lineHeight`,
`letterSpacing`, and `color` styles for you, so you can create consistent type quickly and easily.
Instead of the previous flat structure, the type hierarchy is now organized in five levels:

- `display` (used in large heroes and images, not typically used in product applications)
- `title` (used for large page titles)
- `heading` (used for headings and large text)
- `body` (used for standard body text)
- `subtext` (used for small subtext content or in tight spaces)

> And each level has three sizes: `small`, `medium`, and `large`. This organization allows the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each level has three sizes: `small`, `medium`, and `large`. This organization allows the
```

hierarchy to be more flexible and provide better guidance for usage. Below is an example:

```tsx
// v4
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core';

const headingStyles = type.h2;
const smallBodyStyles = type.body2;

// v5
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/tokens';

const headingStyles = type.levels.heading.large;
const smallBodyStyles = type.levels.subtext.large;
```

##### Properties

Most often you will want to reach for `levels`, but sometimes you only need one or two type values

> for styling. Previously, you had to use the hierarchy to apply these values, which is clunky and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for styling. Previously, you had to use the hierarchy to apply these values, which was clunky and
```

> implicit. For example, using: `fontSize: type.h2.fontSize,` when all you really want is the token
> for `24px`. Type `properties` give you an atomic-level of control when you want to explicitly set a
> particular value. Here's an example using `fonts`, `fontSizes`, and `fontWeights`.

Reviewer: Wordsmithing.

```suggestion
implicit. For example, you may have used `fontSize: type.h2.fontSize` even though all you needed was
the token for `24px`. Type `properties` give you an atomic-level of control when you want to
explicitly set a particular value. Here's an example using `fonts`, `fontSizes`, and `fontWeights`.
```

const boldTextStyles = {
  fontFamily: type.properties.fonts.normal, // 'Roboto'
  fontSize: type.properties.fontSizes[16], // 1rem (16px)
  fontWeight: type.properties.bold, // 700
};

const mediumMonoStyles = {
  fontFamily: type.properties.fonts.monospace, // 'Roboto Mono'
  fontSize: type.properties.fontSizes[12], // 0.75rem (12px)
  fontWeight: type.properties.medium, // 500
};
```

##### Variants

**Supported Variants**

We're also reducing and simplifying our `variants`. In v5 we will only support:

- `error` (used for making errors more visible)
- `hint` (used for help text and secondary content)
- `inverse` (used for any text on a dark or colored background)

> **Note:** The `variant` key has been renamed to `variants` to be consistent with our other key
> names.

```tsx
//v4
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core';

const errorStyles = type.variant.error;
const hintStyles = type.variant.hint;
const inverseStyles = type.variant.inverse;

// v5
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/tokens';

const errorStyles = type.variants.error;
const hintStyles = type.variants.hint;
const inverseStyles = type.variants.inverse;
```

**Deprecated Variants**

> There are also a handful of deprecated variants:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've deprecated a handful of variants:
```

- `button`
- `caps`
- `label`
- `link`
- `mono`

With the exception of `link`, which is discussed further below, all of these variants can be

> supported with `properties` and other styles. Below is an example of the translation neeed for each:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supported with `properties` and other styles. Here are examples of how to translate each deprecated variant:
```

```tsx
//v4
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core';

// button variant styles
const buttonStyles = type.variant.button;
// caps variant styles
const capsStyles = type.variant.caps;
// label variant styles
const labelStyles = type.variant.label;
// mono variant styles
const monoStyles = type.variant.mono;

// v5
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react/tokens';

// button variant styles
const buttonStyles = {fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.bold};
// caps variant styles
const capsStyles = {
  fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.medium,
  textTransform: 'uppercase',
};
// label variant styles
const labelStyles = {fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.medium};
// mono variant styles
const monoStyles = {fontFamily: type.properties.fonts.monospace};
```

**Link Variant**

> The `link` variant is also being deprecated in v5, and users will need to use the `Hyperlink`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `link` variant is also being deprecated in v5. You'll need to use the `Hyperlink`
```

We've promoted several components from Labs to Preview in v5. See
[Component Promotions](#component-promotions) for more details.

### Type Deprecations and Hierarchy Updates

> Canvas Kit v4 supported two type hierarchies, `beta` and `legacy` in

Author: Yeah, fair. That's what they were called in the type map. Do you have a name you prefer? `main`?

> Canvas Kit v4 supported two type hierarchies, `beta` and `legacy` in

Author: Never mind. I misread this. I'll just capitalize the names instead.

> Canvas Kit v4 supported two type hierarchies, `beta` and `legacy` in

Author: Updated.

##### Link Variant Migration

To migrate, please use the `Hyperlink` component instead. Detailed usage information is available in
the [variants section](#variants).

#### Type Updates In-Depth Overview

The new type tokens introduce a few major changes:

- Introducing rem units
- Creating new `type` object structure
- Adding new type properties (`fontFamilies`, `fontSizes`, and `fontWeights`)
- Updating and replacing variants

#### Introducing Rem Units

The new type hierarchy uses `rem` units instead of `px`. This update follows the guidance
[from the WCAG spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#resize-text) and provides better support for
users who rely on zooming. If you'd like to learn more about `rem` and relative units, you can
review this
[documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Values_and_units#ems_and_rems).

> **Note:** We are using `16px` as our base font-size for these values. This is a browser standard
> and also fairly common across Workday. However, _if your body text is set to a value other than
> `16px`_, you will need to adjust that value for text to render properly.

#### New Type Object Structure

> The `beta` and `legacy` type object structures were fairly flat, provided many levels in the type

Author: Fixed.

- `variants` (modifiers for type styles)

##### Levels

Type `levels` contain our new type hierarchy. When applying type styles, we recommend using these
tokens first. Each size applies `fontFamily`, `fontSize`, `fontWeight`, `lineHeight`,
`letterSpacing`, and `color` styles for you, so you can create consistent type quickly and easily.
Instead of the previous flat structure, the type hierarchy is now organized in five levels:

- `display` (used in large heroes and images, not typically used in product applications)
- `title` (used for large page titles)
- `heading` (used for headings and large text)
- `body` (used for standard body text)
- `subtext` (used for small subtext content or in tight spaces)

And each level has three sizes: `large`, `medium`, and `small`. This organization allows the
hierarchy to be more flexible and provide better guidance for usage. Below is an example:

```tsx
// v4
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core';

const headingStyles = type.h2;
const smallBodyStyles = type.body2;

// v5
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/tokens';

const headingStyles = type.levels.heading.large;
const smallBodyStyles = type.levels.subtext.large;

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would also call out that this addresses the awkward issue from our old hierarchy where you would apply a stylistic heading level to a different level of semantic element (e.g. `<h2 css={ type.h4 }>`)

Author: Yeah, that's what I meant in the sentence above:
> This organization allows the hierarchy to be more flexible and provide better guidance for usage.

But I can add an example as well.

Author: Done.

We've promoted several components from Labs to Preview in v5. See
[Component Promotions](#component-promotions) for more details.

### Type Deprecations and Hierarchy Updates

Canvas Kit v4 supported two type hierarchies, Beta and Legacy in
`@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core` and `@workday/canvas-kit-react-core` respectively. However, v5
replaces those with a new, responsive type hierarchy in `@workday/canvas-kit-react/tokens`. We are
also deprecating and updating our type variants. The v5 codemod handles almost all of these changes
for you. That said, you'll want to review the transformation and your UI to ensure everything was
updated as you expect.

#### Automatic Updates

- 🤖 Type Hierarchy Updates

  All type hierarchy updates are handled by the codemod. The tables below will help you understand the
  changes and provide a reference as you review your UI. Most teams are using the Beta type tokens
  in `@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core`, but some are using the Legacy type in
  `@workday/canvas-kit-react-core`.

>   | Beta Type (px)  | Resposive Type (rem)                      |
>   | --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
>   | `brand1` (56px) | `levels.title.large` ( 3.5rem \ 56px)     |
>   | `brand2` (48px) | `levels.title.medium` ( 3rem \ 48px)      |
>   | `h1` (40px)     | `levels.title.small` ( 2.5rem \ 40px)     |
>   | `h2` (32px)     | `levels.heading.large` ( 2rem \ 32px)     |
>   | `h3` (24px)     | `levels.heading.small` ( 1.5rem \ 24px)   |
>   | `h4` (20px)     | `levels.body.large` ( 1.25rem \ 20px)     |
>   | `h5` (20px)     | `levels.body.large` ( 1.25rem \ 20px)     |
>   | `body` (16px)   | `levels.body.small` ( 1rem \ 16px)        |
>   | `body2` (14px)  | `levels.subtext.large` ( 0.875rem \ 14px) |
>   | `small` (13px)  | `levels.subtext.medium` ( 0.75rem \ 12px) |
> 
>   | Legacy Type (px)  | Resposive Type (rem)                     |

Reviewer: Misspelling.
```suggestion
  | Beta Type (px)  | Responsive Type (rem)                      |
  | --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
  | `brand1` (56px) | `levels.title.large` ( 3.5rem \ 56px)     |
  | `brand2` (48px) | `levels.title.medium` ( 3rem \ 48px)      |
  | `h1` (40px)     | `levels.title.small` ( 2.5rem \ 40px)     |
  | `h2` (32px)     | `levels.heading.large` ( 2rem \ 32px)     |
  | `h3` (24px)     | `levels.heading.small` ( 1.5rem \ 24px)   |
  | `h4` (20px)     | `levels.body.large` ( 1.25rem \ 20px)     |
  | `h5` (20px)     | `levels.body.large` ( 1.25rem \ 20px)     |
  | `body` (16px)   | `levels.body.small` ( 1rem \ 16px)        |
  | `body2` (14px)  | `levels.subtext.large` ( 0.875rem \ 14px) |
  | `small` (13px)  | `levels.subtext.medium` ( 0.75rem \ 12px) |

  | Legacy Type (px)  | Responsive Type (rem)                     |
```

  | `type.variant.error`   | `type.variants.error`                                                          | name change only                        |
  | `type.variant.hint`    | `type.variants.hint`                                                           | name change only                        |
  | `type.variant.inverse` | `type.variants.inverse`                                                        | name change only                        |
  | `type.variant.button`  | `{fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.bold}`                               | variant deprecated, use type properties |
  | `type.variant.caps`    | `{textTransform: 'uppercase', fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.medium}` | variant deprecated, use type properties |
  | `type.variant.label`   | `{fontWeight: type.properties.fontWeights.medium}`                             | variant deprecated, use type properties |
  | `type.variant.mono`    | `{fontFamily: type.properties.fontFamilies.monospace}`                         | variant deprecated, use type properties |

#### Manual Updates

##### TypeScript Type Updates

> - `CanvasType` still exists, but the types are quite different and will likely throw errrors if

Reviewer 3: Spelling on "errrors"

> - `CanvasType` still exists, but the types are quite different and will likely throw errrors if

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `CanvasType` still exists, but the types are quite different and will likely throw errors if
```

### Core

#### Remove Labs Core

The Labs `core` package has been removed. The few utilities in that package were either promoted,
deprecated, or found a better home in another package. These changes are listed below, most of which
are handled by the v5 codemod.

##### Automatic Updates

- 🤖 Move `StaticStates` component to Main `common`

We use `StaticStates` internally for our visual regression tests. It didn't really make sense to

> live in `core`, and it's stable enough to move to Main, so it now lives in `common`.

Reviewer: Here's another section where indenting the nested content in the list items will improve readability.

```tsx
// v4
import {StaticStates} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core';

// v5
import {StaticStates} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/common';
```

- 🤖 Move `type` tokens to Main `tokens` (formerly `core`)

This change is described in more detail in the [Type Section](#type), but suffice to say all `type`
imports will be automatically migrated to the Main `token` package by the codemod.

```tsx
// v4
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-labs-react-core';

// v5
import {type} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/tokens';
```

##### Manual Updates

- Deprecate `space` in favor of `Box`

The `space` function was a handy little utility that you could apply to `styled()` components to add
space style props. However, with the addition of `Box` it is no longer needed. `Box` provides
`space` style props and much more. While this is a manual migration, the process is fairly
straight-forward. One important note: The `space` props were a shorthand version of what `Box`

> provides: `pt` maps to `paddingTop`, `mr` maps to `marginRight`, and so on. You can see this in the

Reviewer: There's probably a way to reword this without having a nested colon.

Author: Yep. Agreed. I landed on:

> **Note:** The `space` props use shorthand prop names for what `Box` provides. For example, `pt` maps to `paddingTop`, `mr` maps to `marginRight`, and so on. You can see this in the example below.

\* Before, the types were too generic and not very useful. They now better reflect the values they
represent.

The codemod will handle _almost all of_ of these changes with a The v5 codemod handles aew possible

> exceptions not. for you. That said, you'll want to review your UI to ensure everything was updated

Reviewer: I think there was a copy-and-paste accident here 😄

That, or one of your kids got ahold of your keyboard.

Author: Yep. This is even the wrong section. Sheesh. Good catch.
